# Minikube Usage Guide

This guide provides instructions on how to install and use Minikube, a tool that allows you to run Kubernetes locally. By following these instructions, you'll be able to set up a local Kubernetes cluster using Minikube.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, ensure that the following prerequisites are installed on your machine:

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)

Make sure you install all of them. 

## Starting Minikube

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Start Minikube by executing the following command:
   
   ```bash
   minikube start
   ```
3. Wait for Minikube to complete the startup process. It may take a few moments to download and configure the necessary components.

## Interacting with Minikube
1. Verify that Minikube is running by executing the following command:
   ```bash
   minikube status
   ```
2. Use `kubectl` commands to interact with your Minikube cluster. For instance, you can use the following command to retrieve a list of running pods:
   ```bash
   kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
   ```
 

## Service Types in Kubernetes
In Kubernetes, services provide a way to expose and access applications running in a cluster. There are different types of services available, including the following:
- **ClusterIP:** This is the default service type. It assigns an internal IP address to the service, which can be accessed only from within the cluster.
- **NodePort:** This service type exposes the service on a static port on each cluster node's IP. It allows external access to the service using the node's IP address and the assigned port.
- **LoadBalancer:** This type automatically provisions an external load balancer to distribute traffic to the service. It is typically used in cloud environments where a load balancer is available.
- **ExternalName:** This type provides a way to map a service to an external DNS name without the need for a selector or endpoints. It is useful when you want to access an external service by name rather than IP.

## Deploying a Service and Deployment
To test the functionality of Minikube, you can create a sample service and deployment using the provided YAML files in the repository.

1. Create the Deployment by running the following command:
   ```bash
     kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
   ``` 
   This will create a deployment based on the specifications defined in the `deployment.yaml` file.
2. Create the Service by executing the following command:
   ```bash
     kubectl apply -f service.yaml
   ``` 
   This will create a service based on the specifications defined in the `service.yaml` file.
4. After applying both files, you can use the Minikube Dashboard or run `kubectl get pods` and `kubectl get services` to verify that the deployment and service are running successfully.


## Viewing Pod Logs

In Kubernetes, you can use the `kubectl logs` command to view logs from a specific pod. This is useful for troubleshooting and debugging purposes, as it allows you to inspect the logs generated by your application running in the cluster.

To view the logs of a pod, follow these steps:

1. Open a terminal or command prompt.

2. Use the following command to list all the pods in your Minikube cluster:

   ```bash
   kubectl get pods
   ```
   This command will display a list of all the pods along with their names.
3. Identify the name of the pod for which you want to view the logs.
4. Run the following command to view the logs of the specific pod:
   ```bash
   kubectl logs <pod-name>
   ```
   Replace `<pod-name>` with the name of the pod you identified in the previous step.
5. The command will display the logs generated by the pod. You can use this information to diagnose any issues or errors in your application.

## Minikube Dashboard
Minikube provides a web-based user interface called the Minikube Dashboard, which allows you to visualize and manage your local Kubernetes cluster.

1. To open the Minikube Dashboard, run the following command:
    ```bash
      minikube dashboard
   ```
   This will open a web browser with the Minikube Dashboard.

2. Explore the Dashboard to view information about your cluster, such as nodes, pods, services, and deployments. You can use it to monitor and manage your applications in the local Kubernetes environment.

## Testing the Cluster

Once you have deployed your service and deployment in Minikube, you can test the cluster and access the service URL to ensure everything is working as expected.

1. To get the URL of your service, run the following command:

   ```bash
   minikube service <service-name>
   ```
   Replace <service-name> with the name of your service. This command will provide you with the URL where your service is exposed.

2. Copy the URL from the command output and paste it into a web browser. This will allow you to access your service running in the Minikube cluster.


   
## Stopping Minikube
To stop the Minikube cluster, use the following command:
   ```bash
   minikube stop
   ```
This will stop the local Kubernetes cluster.
